You have completed your Gilead schooling.
You've done well, and we warmly commend you.
You've reached the finish line for this school.
When the program concludes, you will be a graduate.
You've run this course, so to speak, with that goal in mind haven't you.
Yet, through it all, you also kept in mind that for you,
this experience is a part of a bigger race, the race for life.
Like determined runners, loyal servants of God keep moving forward
after each goal in their service to Him.
Such goals are like stages in a race.
Some of our goals and our pace may vary from person to person based on circumstances.
For you, Gilead School is a goal or stage that you have now completed,
but keep running.
See, we run until we reach what our faith shows us,
the prize waiting beyond the ultimate finish line ever lasting life in the service of Jehovah.
The promise is founding God's Word, move us to keep reaching out for that prize.
Consider the Apostle Paul who was reaching out for the heavenly hope.
At 2 Timothy 4, 7, and 8, he indicated that he had reached the finish line,
his prize was in sight, and it was reserved for him.
He said, I have fought the fine fight.
I have run the race to the finish.
I have observed the faith.
From this time on, there is reserve for me the crown of righteousness.
With strong faith, Paul could see beyond the finish line,
and he yearned for the reward that he would receive.
And then there is Jesus example.
Just before breathing his last, he cried out, it has been accomplished.
Throughout his earthly ministry, that goal to accomplish Jehovah's will for him never left his sight.
No matter how painful his life course proved to be,
Jesus kept his integrity and finished that course like the true Son of God that he is.
In all of this, Jesus saw more than just the finish line.
He saw the endless joy that was waiting for him.
So powerful is Jesus example that Hebrews 12 verse 2 urges us to keep it centered in our sight.
We invite you to follow along there with Hebrews 12 and verse 2.
It says, as we look intently, at the chief agent and perfector of our faith, Jesus,
for the joy that was set before him, he endured a torture state, despising shame,
and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.
Who were we urged to look at intently?
The perfector of our faith, Jesus.
And what did Jesus look at? What did he see?
He saw the joy that his faith placed directly in front of him.
Jesus focused on the joy that would result from his life course of perfect integrity,
from providing the ransom for us and from being back alongside his heavenly Father.
Jesus never took his eyes off the prize waiting beyond the finish line and neither should we.
Let's look at some important lessons that will help all of us to complete the race for life.
We will consider two main points.
First, how should you run each stage of the race?
And second, qualities that will help you to run like a true Christian and win.
Now for the first point, how should you run each stage of the race?
The race for life is a race of endurance.
And as mentioned, it includes stages or success of goals.
We strive for each goal at our individual best pace and with a clear focus on the ultimate goal or prize.
First Timothy 619 calls that prize the real life.
That is everlasting life in perfection, either in heaven or on earth.
As mentioned, your Gilead training is now a completed stage of the race for you.
With humility, apply all that you have learned and remain focused on the endless joy ahead of you.
When hardships and difficulties come and they will keep moving forward.
If you are knocked down by anything, get back up and run with determination with everything that you've got.
Be like the marathon runner from the country of Tanzania who ran in the 1968 Olympics held in Mexico City.
At one point during that race, he was bumped by other runners.
And he fell to the ground so hard that he gashed his knee and dislocated it.
He also smashed his shoulder against the pavement.
Yet after receiving some medical attention, he refused to stop running.
He continued in the race. His pace was slower, but he moved forward toward his goal.
He was no longer running for a mere material prize.
He was running to complete the race with his honor intact and that of the land he represented. He finished the race.
In the race for life, you may experience times when you feel as if someone or something is trying to knock you down.
What will you do? Learn from what happened to the Galatians.
When some in the first century allowed the speech and actions of others to knock them out of the race,
notice what Paul said to them at Galatians 5 and verses 7 and 8.
Imagine that he has an incredulous tone as he speaks to him and states in verse 7.
You were running well. Who hindered you from continuing to obey the truth?
This sort of persuasion does not come from the one calling you.
What was the problem?
Some in Galatia had allowed themselves to be persuaded by false teachings,
and they were no longer obeying the truth. They gave into pressure.
Also, in verse 13, Paul refers to the danger of fleshly desires.
Whatever happened to them, those Christian runners were hindered, as he said,
because they took their eyes off of the prize. All of us must keep that lesson in front of us.
If we do, we will never be hindered or thrown off course in our pursuit of the real life.
We will be rock solid in our focus.
When others see that you are looking straight ahead toward the prize,
they are helped to look in the same direction.
Continue to be a real stabilizing influence in the branches where you will serve.
So for our first point, how should you run each stage of the race,
run at your very best pace, and with a clear focus on your ultimate goal, the real life?
Now for our second main point, qualities that will help you to run like a true Christian and win.
We run as true Christians when we follow the example of Christ.
Jesus' example of doing all things for Jehovah's glory,
despite the suffering that He endured, is one that we must follow.
First, Peter 2.21 reminds us that Christ suffered for you,
leaving a model for you to follow His steps closely.
Let's consider two qualities that Jesus had in abundance,
and that we must imitate closely, faith and courage.
For each quality, we will look at why we need it to win.
So we begin with faith.
Now, you do not need to be told what faith is.
You have it, and you've learned much about examples of faith in your studies.
We need faith because faith helps us to endure,
and faith helps us to remember that our trials in life are temporary.
We look ahead with confidence.
We see beyond the troubles of today, and we trust Jehovah every step of the way.
You needed to have faith after you arrived for this school,
and then had to wait patiently for some months for your classes to begin, true?
You know it out wondered, when will the classes start?
How will they be carried out in a pandemic?
You waited, and in due time, your faith was rewarded.
Jehovah saw to it that things worked out, didn't he?
Your instructors and so many others working with Him
ensured that the school moved forward safely,
and that you received the full benefit from the classes.
That experience highlights the kind of faith that all of us will need in the days ahead
whenever new challenges arise.
You could say that 2020 vision will be necessary for each of us to keep running successfully,
and I don't mean the year 2020.
True Christians look far ahead with clear spiritual vision.
That's the point, and remain focused on the prize beyond the finish line.
Those without faith cannot see it.
They cannot focus on things unseen, but those with faith can see it.
That is why they, why you, remained focused on Jehovah's promises.
The scriptures are just to keep looking ahead.
An example of this is found at 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verses 17 and 18.
2 Corinthians 4, 17 and 18.
Now when writing these inspired words, Paul was encouraging the brothers not to allow problems,
difficulties and persecutions, to cloud or block their view of the glorious reward that was set before them.
Please look at what is said starting in verse 17.
For though the tribulation is momentary in light,
it works out for us a glory that is of more and more surpassing greatness and is everlasting.
While we keep our eyes not on the things seen, but on the things unseen.
For the things seen are temporary, but the things unseen are ever lasting.
Again, these inspired words should move us to look beyond the trials we face and to remain focused on what is ahead of us.
Paul was speaking to those with the heavenly hope, but the encouragement and meaning behind these words applies to all who are running for the real life.
That is for the things ever lasting as it says here.
When we are determined and focused, we are helped to press on each day.
Proverbs 4, 25 tells us to look straight ahead, fix your eyes or your gaze straight ahead of you.
To keep doing that, we need faith.
We need good spiritual eyesight to see what is otherwise unseen as Paul said.
Keep in mind that the objective of your Gilead training is to strengthen and stabilize the field and branch organization.
Whether a brother or sister, your example of faith, goes a long way in doing that.
Others will imitate the faith and example of a determined runner.
When you are settled in your assignments, keep your eyes of faith set on doing God's will.
Danger can come when you start to feel that you've achieved most or even all of your goals.
What could be the result?
When we lose sight of the race and of its prize, our interests will focus on other things, perhaps material things.
Don't let this happen to you.
Never allow distractions to pull you off of the Christian course.
And avoid ever becoming self-satisfied because of privileges that you may come to enjoy.
Focus on the real life and remain humble.
Appreciate your privileges in Jehovah's service.
But remain focused on what you desire most.
Pleasing Jehovah and doing his will forever.
As we read earlier in Hebrews 12, when Jesus suffered unjustly to the point of death,
he endured for the joy that was set before him.
He always looked at what was ahead of him.
The reward that he longed for was clear to him. It was that real to him.
We must always remember Jesus' example as we keep looking ahead.
Maintain your strong faith by reading God's word every day and applying its counsel in everything that you do.
We endure in the race with courage when our faith is strong.
And that is the second quality we will now look at courage.
Why we need courage to win?
True Christians have courage that stems from their faith.
We live with hope, with expectation, and not just any expectation, but assured expectation as the Scriptures call it.
When your rescued is assured, it gives you courage, doesn't it?
Imagine how Jeremiah felt when Ebed Melek and 30 other men arrived to pull him up out of a deep sister.
What could have seemed hopeless was now a moment filled with hope, and he continued on with courage.
Courage moves us to look beyond any obstacles that may stand between us and the finish line.
The fact is that nothing promised in God's word will fail to come true.
So take courage. Keep in mind that your determination to do God's will means that for you, the prize will be waiting.
Jehovah cannot lie.
Therefore, as you go to your assignments, remain calm and assured of Jehovah's help.
True, great changes have taken place in the world since you arrived for Gilead school.
But though the world is changing around us, and certainly not for the better, remember Jehovah's promises.
What we see happening is temporary.
Pandemic, nothing new. Jesus foretold it, didn't he?
Pastelence, as he called it, in one place after another.
So we're not shaken by this. We have faith and courage, and we keep going, don't we?
Think back to the Olympic marathon runner from Tanzania who we mentioned earlier.
After being injured, he was bandaged and then continued to run.
It took courage and determination to run and sometimes walk through the pain.
When he eventually crossed the finish line, he was cheered by the small crowd remaining in the stadium.
Now try to imagine, he was limping with his bandages blowing in the wind, but he moved forward toward his goal.
For many, the race would have been long over, but that man was running for something more than a material prize.
He saw something greater beyond that finish line.
What was it? We find it in what he said afterward.
When he was asked why he continued on in the race, he replied,
My country did not send me 5,000 miles to start the race.
They sent me 5,000 miles to finish the race.
That sense of responsibility gave him the courage to go on despite the pain.
He saw a greater purpose, and he returned home with honor.
We too have a greater responsibility and a far more important race.
We owe it to Jehovah to keep running the Christian course.
He and his son gave everything you could say so that we can keep running.
We also owe it to others.
To set a good example for them that will motivate them never to give up.
And we owe it to ourselves to use what we have been given,
so as to run in a way that we gain the real life.
We are certain that you have both the faith and the courage to run with the eyes of your heart,
looking intently at Jesus' example and at the prize.
Soon review.
What is the overall lesson for you, Gilea graduates, and really, for every Christian runner?
It is this.
Run for the real life at your very best pace.
Jehovah will help you.
Run with a clear focus on your ultimate goal.
And run the course with faith and with courage.
When will the finish line be reached?
For those who will live forever on earth, the Revelation climax book states this in chapter 11.
Quote, by exercising faith throughout Jesus' millennial reign
and during the decisive test that follows,
these will be rewarded with life everlasting in paradise on earth.
Their names will then remain indelibly written in the book of life end of quote.
For true servants of God, that decisive test will be nothing to fear.
They will never drop out of the race.
For them, that test will be just another day on the calendar, so to speak.
They will keep going with their eyes fixed on what is ahead for them.
Faith, courage, and all other God-like qualities will carry loyal ones into the real life.
Use your Gilea training to run the race well.
Strengthen others to do the same.
See the prize ahead of you and follow Jesus steps closely.
Run the race through the approaching great tribulation and then keep running like a true Christian.